---
template: BlogPost
path: /test2
date: 2020-10-16T12:32:04.328Z
title: Test 2
metaDescription: blah blah
thumbnail: /assets/IMG-0817.PNG
author: test 2
category: Justice & Law
EditorChoice: true
---
* test 2 

  Biography Review:I am Malala

  I am Malala,by Malala Yousafzai, with Christina Lamb (2013), is the biography of a young girl’s journey as a champion of access to education, and an adversary to the Taliban’s propaganda in Pakistan -- along with her father. Malala is a name eponymous with activism for girls’ and education rights around the world. She was born on July 12th, 1997, in the village of Mingora, located in the Swat Valley region in Pakistan (p. 55). She comes from a proud Pashtun family -- Pashto-speaking people originating from Afghanistan (p. 23), and she is the eldest of three children, with two younger brothers (p. xii). She spent her entire childhood within the confines of that valley and Pakistan (p. 271) -- until, at the age of fifteen, when she was shot in the head by the Taliban.

  Malala was born into a culture that didn’t particularly celebrate the birth of a girl. Although her father was a different story - he showered her with the joy and pride usually reserved for boys. Her father named her after a young woman known as “the greatest heroine of Afghanistan” (p. 14), Malalai of Maiwand. She is remembered for being martyred after running into battle during the second Anglo-Afghan war in 1880; she took the place of a fallen flag-bearer and inspired the Afghan soldiers to win the battle they were losing (p. 15). Malala’s college-educated father (p. 42), Ziauddin, didn’t exhibit the staunch patriarchal values of his Pashtun culture. He was a believer in the value of education for all--he even started his own school, the Khushal School (the first of multiple), for both girls and boys (p. 49). He also joined an organization that focused on strengthening local schools’ administration against bureaucratic corruption (p. 50); as a vocal political activist, founded an association that challenged ultra-conservative figures and eventually, the Taliban (p. 84).

  While Malala’s father was the foundation for her own involvement in activism, her mother encouraged her no less (p. xiv). Both her parents were the key in what set her apart from other young girls experiencing the same social enforcement of patriarchal and misguided Islamic gender roles. They fostered her curiosity as a student and provided access to all the educational opportunities they were able to. They didn’t differentiate between her and her brothers simply because of their genders (p. 68). Her own activism began with exposure to her father’s organisations--before the Taliban cemented themselves in her beloved Valley.

  At the age of ten, Malala’s main interests were the Twilight novel series, fictional vampires, and challenging her best friend Moniba at school. It was around then that the Taliban, “...arrived in the night just like vampires” (p. 111). They were led by Maulana Fazlullah, who had taken over that faction’s leadership from his imprisoned father-in-law. Fazlullah set up an illegal radio station on the bounds of a small village outside the main town of Mingora in the Swat Valley. He began broadcasting the group’s propaganda in an almost rational manner that many people began to really listen to: the establishment of Sharia law (Islamic law), the proper way of practicing Islam, opposition to Western culture, and all the acts that were considered ‘haram’--forbidden and blasphemous, such as dancing, watching movies, education of girls, etc (p. 112-113).

  The Taliban, as they grew in power in the region, began to be more brash in their actions. Their soldiers began to harass women and girls who weren’t covered in proper attire, unaccompanied by a male family member, or on their way to school. They eventually declared war against Pakistan’s government and followed with outright public violence. They publicly flogged and assassinated anyone they deemed a violator of Islamic rules. They bombed and destroyed schools where girls were educated and succeeded in establishing a temporary outlawing of girls’ education altogether (p.123-128). As these events unfolded, Malala had already been accompanying her father to television and radio interviews, and public events, supporting his political activism while becoming prominent on her own. She was known for asking difficult questions and acknowledging the lack of access to education and proper infrastructure.

  Malala was approached by the BBC to write diary entries about her experiences during this time under a pseudonym (p. 155). As she wrote about her daily activities and the changes under the Taliban, the ban on girls’ education came through. Her last day of day school became the subject of aNew York Times documentary (p. 163). She had done all that she could to try to stay in school, from dressing in plainclothes instead of her school uniform, hiding her books under her clothes, and sitting in classes for lower grades that weren’t under as much strict scrutiny (p. 156-157). With her parents’ support, she was able to document this as not just her story, but hundreds of other girls who hadn’t been taken out of school by their fearful families. As the situation continued to be dire, Malala’s father received death threats and orders to close his ‘Western’ school; with the likelihood of government intervention finally seeming possible--the Yousafzai family, along with thousands of others, fled their homes (p. 178).

  Surely enough, armed conflict ensued in the Swat Valley between the Pakistani army and Taliban--after a three month period, the army claimed to have cleared out the Taliban and the family returned to Mingora (p. 189). Although, kidnappings and assassinations continued, as did threats against Malala’s father. Life somehow crept back to a normal pace eventually, and girls were able to go to school again; the Yousafzais returned to activism (p. 226). Malala was awarded Pakistan’s first-ever National Peace Prize for her work and several other accolades that allowed her family to establish access to underprivileged children in her father’s school (p. 216). Malala’s growing popularity and vocal opposition to the Taliban had her declared as an official enemy. They issued Malala her first death threat--an unprecedented move (p. 223). Malala and her father expected the threats against him, but not a fifteen-year-old, “The Taliban have never come for a small girl” (p. 7).

  On October 9th, 2012, on her way back from school after an exam -- the school van Malala was in was pulled over. A young man approached the back where she and other classmates were and fired three shots after identifying her. One shot struck the left side of her head and the two others hit her classmates (p. 241-242). The shooter remained at large as the attempted assassination caused a global outcry. In the following days, Malala was moved from hospital to hospital under government support, eventually being flown to Birmingham, United Kingdom, for better treatment (p. 271). Her family joined her soon after, as she began to miraculously recover, barely avoiding death (p. 290). They continue living in the U.K., unable to return to Pakistan, under financial support from the Pakistani government (p. 298).

  Malala’s story is that of millions of girls who have faced obstacles in their access to fundamental rights--most prominently here: education. She is an icon because of her fierce pursuit of the opportunities her family sought to provide her, and the values her father has instilled in her for everyone who doesn’t have the same privileges. She challenges the flawed ideology of terrorists like the Taliban who misappropriate their religion and morph its teachings to benefit their own goals. Malala inspired the global ‘I am Malala’ movement which brought together students from all over the globe vocalizing their resistance to those who continue to murder and steal the right to education of children in many corners of the world (p. 289). She is the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, and is a beacon of representation for a community of people the world continues to shun: Muslims.

  Malala’s documentation of the Western world impeding on the Islamic world, the rest of the world’s silence, and her own government’s inaction are reminiscent of how we turn a blind eye to the suffering that doesn’t affect us. We, the Western world, are largely oblivious to the struggles that our militaries and institutions have inadvertently wrought on innocent people. However, Malala’s story as an ordinary young girl cheated of her passion to learn, made a displaced person within her own country, directly affected by terrorism, and then an unwilling refugee after an assassination attempt, all paint a vivid picture of all the young women who’ve never had the chance to speak up.
